I trained word embeddings based on newspaper data dating from 1815 until 1879 available in the public newspaper database of Delpher.  After downloading and unzipping the files, I collected the metadata in an Excel file. The metadata was used to filter the newspapers for date, language, and publication type (i.e., article, advertisement, or family announcement). Before modelling the word embeddings, the data was pre-filtered and pre-processed. I pre-processed the data in chunks of one year, and only those texts that were labelled as ‘Dutch’ and ‘article’. Pre-processing consisted of tokenising the text, segmenting the text into sentences, making all tokens lowercase, eliminating tokens up to three and longer than fifteen characters, eliminating stop words, and eliminating sentences that contained more than 30 percent misspelt words, which were identified by using a list of historic Dutch words.  The spelling check was especially important as the historic data I used was created using OCR and therefore contained many misspelled words. Using the pre-processed data, I created ten different sets of word embeddings for ten different timeframes using the Word2Vec implementation of Gensim.  Word2Vec was run with default settings, except for dimensionality, which was set to 300. The timeframes were chosen based on the amount of newspaper data available, which steadily increases over the nineteenth century, and the aim to create a somewhat fine-grained depiction of temporal semantic change of words of interest. Therefore, I split the period preceding the year the potato blight first occurred (1845) into three timeframes of ten years and the period from 1845 onwards into seven timeframes of five years (Table 1). While for none of the timeframes the amount of tokens reached the desired minimum of 100 million, I believe that the following application of the word embeddings has proven their useful for the heuristic ends of this study. 

Table 1: The timeframes and the related amount of tokens used to construct word embeddings
Timeframe	# tokens
1815-24	13 279 740
1825-34	32 864 014
1835-44	52 302 426
1845-49	42 017 351
1850-54	50 866 060
1855-59	58 715 665
1860-64	70 567 166
1865-69	74 565 178
1870-74	55 885 941
1875-79	77 204 011

Keywords were found based on both quantitative analysis and my personal interpretation. First, I selected words that had a cosine similarity value with aardappelziekte of 0.50 or higher. This threshold cosine similarity value was somewhat arbitrarily chosen, but it gives a manageable amount of results and lies close to 0.45 as used by Joris van Eijnatten and Pim Huijen in their cosine similarity study.   Second, out of the words selected, I picked words that seemed relevant for my research. This meant that words that described different diseases than the potato blight and words that related to the cultivation of other crops than potatoes were discarded, together with words that were highly synonymous to ziekte, aardappelziekte, or aardappel. Third, the final selection of keywords was made by checking whether the cosine similarity value of the words that fulfilled the first two criteria was positively related to the occurrence of the potato blight. To this end, I analysed the temporal changes of the cosine similarity values of the selected words with aardappel* and looked for an increase from the years before the potato blight (1835-44) to the years during the potato blight (1845-49). Only words that fulfilled all three criteria were selected as keywords and used in subsequent querying of the online Delpher newspaper archive. 
